# Conjur Enterprise Kubernetes Follower Integration

## Definitions

A **Follower** is a read only replica of the Conjur **Leader**. 

**Leader** is the main Conjur node: A single Conjur Server instance that performs read/write operations. It is primarily used to update policies and secrets.

**Followers** are horizontally-scaling components that are typically configured behind a load balancer to handle all types of read requests from workloads and applications, including authentication, permission checks, and secret fetches.

## Replication
Data is transferred from the active Leader to the Followers using PostgreSQL streaming replication. 

Streaming replication uses a continuous connection between the 'upstream' Leader and each 'downstream' Standby or Follower. 

Follower data replication is asynchronous.

## Secure Communication 
All traffic within the cluster is secured by verified TLS (HTTPS, LDAPS, or PostgreSQL with Mutual TLS).

Each Conjur Server (Leader/Follower) has an SSL certificate which is issued by a common certificate authority (CA). 

On setup, self signed certificates are generated and configured. These certificates can be swapped for those generated by your organization.

## Auditing
The Leader and all Followers generate audit records that capture all activity. 
A Follower forwards its audit events to the Leader.

## Use Cases
Two use cases are described here:
1. Follower using JWT based authentication - Please refer to the folder *jwt-based*
2. Follower using certificate based authentication *cert-based*
